the problem is 01 Absa
problem in this video I will explain
what is 01 napsack problem and how it
can be solved using dynamic programming
we will understand its approach next I
will show you a tabular method for
solving this one then also I will show
you a sets method for solving this one
so there are two methods we will see
both the methods first of all let us
understand what the problem is
here I have some four objects for each
object there is some profit and there is
some
weight and there is a bag of capacity M
that is 8 is
given the objective is to fill this back
with these objects so can I put them all
see the capacity a is eight but the
total weights of all these object is 14
so all objects cannot be filled in the
bag so I have to carry few of those some
of those objects that is subset of those
objects and I have to carry them and
sell them at other place so once I sell
I get this
profit so I have to fill the object such
that the total profit is
maximized and I have to give the
solution in the form of a set for each
object like for example this is included
and this is not included or not included
like this I have to write down which one
is included and not included so it means
I can write down each XI either 0 or 1
means the values can be 0 or 1 but not
fraction so it means that the object
that I'm going to carry are not
divisible breakable so I cannot take the
fraction of that object so this means
these are some solid objects maybe a
mixer or microwave1 or a router it can
be something like this so which I cannot
take a half of mixer in the bag so these
are indivisible objects so either I
should carry the whole object or don't
carry it at all so I have to carry the
object such that the sum of their
profits should be
maximized and some of
their weights should be less than or
equal to the capacity of the
back now let us know the approach of
dynamic programming for solving this one
now few important things about dynamic
programming dynamic programming is
useful for solving optimization problem
yes this demands maximum results so it's
optimization problem second thing
dynamic programming says that a problem
should be solved in sequence of
decisions so yes we can take the
sequence of decisions for every object
we can take shall I include or not
include or not include or not so I can
take decisions I can even start taking
the decision from the last object also
include or not include or so usually in
this one we take the decision from last
object towards first object so we can
take sequence of decision next thing one
more point that dynamic programming says
that you should try all possible
solutions and pick up the best one now
how many possible solutions are there
see when I'm writing the solution in the
form of zeros and ones then it can be 0
0 0 means no object is included or 1 one
one one means all objects are included
or 0 0 0 1 means only fourth object is
included or first object is
included or first two objects are
included like this there are many
possible solutions and some of them may
be feasible some may not be feasible
like all objects I cannot include so
anyway I should try all of them and pick
up the best one so total how many
solutions will be there so like four
zeros and ones form if I continue so
I'll be getting 2^ 4
Solutions so I should try 2 power 4
solution for n objects it will be 2
power n solution
so if I try out all then the time
complexity will be 2^
n this is too much time consuming so
dynamic programming shows a easy method
for doing the same thing we will not we
will be indirectly trying all 2 power n
right but not directly so we'll not
spend that much time let us solve this
problem using tabulation method
tabulation method let us see how to fill
this values and how to get the solution
for this problem so for solving as the
capacity of the bag is8 so I have taken
the column so starting from 0 to
8 so this means that though the capacity
is8 but we'll not consider that eight at
once so we'll add weight one by one so
starting from zero then let us assume
weight is one weight is two and so on
then rows four objects so I have taken
five 0 1 2 3 4 so starting from zero so
it means 1 by we will consider the
object so initially we will not consider
any object means we will not include any
object in the bag so for filling this we
have a formula so I'll show you formula
after some time after filling some
values so let us see first row as zero
object no object is included then what
will be the profit so in these boxes
I'll be writing the profit so there is
no profit gained when no object is
included and even when the capacity of
the bag is zero this are the this is the
capacity these are the weights right and
these are weights and the profits of the
objects so these are the weights and
there is zero weight is there then all
these are 0 0
next now we will start filling so for
that I'll consider first object when I
consider first object I'll take this row
and I will ignore all other
objects and similarly when I go to
second row I'll ignore the remaining and
I will take the second object as well as
the first object I'll consider the first
object also so it means whenever I am in
I throw I will consider all the objects
in the previous rows also so for the
first row directly I can fill it let us
see first row what is the weight of the
first object two so it can be filled
only when the bag capacity is two so
here so what will be the profit one so
fill one here then this means this is
same value previous value usually we
write previous value only if required
then rest of the cells the capacity of
the bag is increasing but how many
objects I'm considering only one so I
don't have anything more to fill in the
bag so only that object I can fill and
it will be getting profit as one one one
only I'll fill the second row also right
third row also in the same way then I
will write down the formula let us go to
second row I'm going to consider second
object so as I said when I consider
second object I should also include the
first object so first let us look at the
second object see the weight of the
second object is three it can be filled
in the bag only if the capacity is three
so in this cell only it can be filled so
what is the profit that I'll get two so
put two here what about this side it
will be same value same value as the
previous rle then beyond this what
should come here so as I said that when
you are taking second object you should
also consider first object so if I fill
the second object also in the back total
weight required is how much five so this
is five and total profit will be three
so both the objects can be filled when
the capacity is five and the total
profit will be three so here both of
them can be
filled right both of them I'm
considering both of them so now I have
have only two objects and this is giving
for both the objects are filled so rest
of the values will be 3 3 3 then what
will be the value here so as this is two
so this will also be two so I can take
the previous value or this value
whichever is maximum I can take the same
thing now I will fill the third object
also then for the fourth object I will
show you the formula third object when I
consider third object if you look at
these the maximum weight is this one and
as they are arranged in the increasing
order of the weight so this is weight is
four so this object can be filled in the
bag only if the capacity of the bag is
four so this will be included in the bag
when the capacity is four so the total
profit that you'll be getting is five so
this is five then before that whatever
the previous row values are so 2 1 and
zero now Beyond this let us see see when
I on the third object I should also
consider first first and the second
object
also so if I just check them this is
four and if I take these two objects it
will be total six weight weight is six
so these two objects I can fill if the
weight is six right a if I want to fill
these two then these two I can fill when
the weight is
seven this two I can fill if the weight
is five and what will do the profit
three this object itself is five right
now I will consider these two six and
the total weight will be six so at six
it will be six only right and when I
consider these two so total is seven
seven and the profit is also seven so at
seven the profit is seven can I include
all three it will be 10 but the capacity
of the bag is only eight so I cannot
include all three then beyond this the
value will be seven only and before this
one the value will be same as this five
five all right now I will show you the
formula and I will fill fourth row with
that formula the formula is like this if
I call this table as V this table as V
then V of I comma w i is the row number
W is the column number is maximum
of V of i- 1 that is from the previous
row I should take same value means
previous row value I should take this is
the meaning or maximum of this one or
what V of IUS 1 comma weight minus
weight of an object
wi plus profit of an object that you are
considering now let us the follow the
formula and fill all
these first one 4A 1 I will fill 4A 1 so
V of 4A 1 is maximum
of V of 3A 1 like this is four so this
will be three comma V of 3 comma weight
is how much 1 minus weight of an object
weight of an object is 5 1 - 5 plus
profit of that object is six six
now this becomes 3A
-4 there is no such location so that
value becomes undefined so only this
value will be defined V of 3 comma 1
will be defined so V of 3 comma 1 is
what zero so I should take zero
only there will not be any such index V
of 3 comma -4 yes for that I have to
take zero only so it means up to what
I'll be getting negative numbers up to
fifth weight up to fifth weight so till
here I should fill these values as it is
only so that's what I was saying that
this can be considered or this can be
considered in fourth so write on its
value and all previous values as it is
so the same thing here because there you
will be getting negative so till fifth
weight till fifth weight before that
till before that I have filled as it is
now this fifth way how to fill I will
show you for this value 4A 5 V of 4A 5
is maximum
of V of 3 comma 5 comma V of 3 comma
weight is how much five minus weight of
this object is how much
five plus profit of this object is how
much 6 6 let us see V of 3 comma 5 3A 5
is how much 5 comma V of 3A 5 - 1 5 - 5
0 V of 3 comma 0 3 comma 0 is 0 plus 6
so which is greater 6 is greater so fill
this value with six so that means this
object is included
here now 4A 6 I will find out V of 4A 6
is maximum of V of 3A 6 comma V of 3
comma weight is 6 right and the weight
of the object is 5
plus profit of the object is 6 so how
much this is V of 3A 6 is how much 3A 6
is 6 6 comma V of 3 comma 6 - 1 6 - 5
that is 1 3A 1 3A 1 is how much 0 0 + 6
so the answer is both are same only so
take six
only next value 4A 7 V of 4A 7 maximum
of V of 3A 7 comma V of 3 comma weight
is how much 7 so weight of the object is
5 7 - 5 plus profit is 6 so this is 3A 7
is how much 7 comma this is V of 3A 7 -
5 is 2 3A 2 so 3A 2 is how much 1 + 6 so
this is 1 + 6 so this is 7 only both I
am getting s or 7 so they are same only
take
seven V of 4A 8 4A 8 is maximum
of V of
3A 8 comma V of 3 comma weight is 8
minus the weight of an object is 5 +
profit is
6 3A 8 how much 3A 8 is 7 comma V of 3A
8 - 5 is 3 3 comma 3 how much 2 so this
is 2 + 6 so how much this is this is
seven and this is 8 so answer
is8 so this is how the table is filled
so I have used the formula for few cells
in the last row and this can also be
filled directly also without the formula
let me show you how to fill this last
row
directly I am considering fourth object
whose weight is five and the profit is
six so in fifth column just write six
it's profit and what to write on the
cells before that same value as the
previous row
this what you do first then beyond this
now the weight is five Beyond this the
capacity of the bag is increasing so I
can include other objects also so let us
check other objects what I can include
in the sixth column this object is
definitely because its profit is maximum
right 5 + 2 7 at 6 nothing will happen
so take six only at seven I can consider
these two these two so this is six + 1 7
7 then at 8 when the bag capacity eight
which of the objects I can consider 5 +
3 8 so 6 and 2 8 so this is
8 so whichever objects that you can
consider you just add them and in that
capacity if they are fitting in you
write on the Max total profit so this is
a simple method for filling the cells
instead of following this complex
formula you can follow that method so I
have shown you both
solution I have to write down X1 X2 X3
X4
values now
these now for finding these answers
actually I'll be taking sequence of
decision now see the decisions can be
taken only if you have the data yes we
have kept the data ready the formula was
used for filling this data now I have to
take the sequence of decision so how to
solve so actually I have to know which
object should be included and which
should not be included in the bag so let
us come with the maximum profit that is
eight the last cell this eight is
generated only in fourth row and in that
previous row you don't find eight
anywhere so it means we got this say
because of including fourth object only
so include the fourth
object right profit is eight fourth
object is included because eight is not
there in previous row now what is the
profit of the a a fourth object 8 minus
profit is six six so this is
two now remaining profit is two now
check whether two is there in the third
row now I have to check for the third
object fourth then third then second and
then one so third object two is there
yes the same value two is there in the
previous row also yes it is there so it
means it is not because of third object
so don't include third
object now let us consider second object
is it two there here in the second row
yes two is there here is it there in the
first row also no so it means this we
got because of inclusion of the second
object so take this as one so now
remaining is 2 - 2 so
zero now zero was it there in the first
object so I have to consider the first
object yes zero was there in the first
object row was it there in the zero also
yes it was there in the zero also this
row also so it means don't include the
object so this is the solution so it
means which objects are included in the
bag X2 and X4 two objects are included
in the back so that is X2 is this one X4
is this one so total profit will be
eight so this is the maximum profit of
01 napsack
problem next I will solve it using sets
method same problem I will solve it
using set method now let us solve it
using set method set method will try to
find all possible possibilities and pick
up the best solution so let us see how
sets are generated we will prepare a set
of order pay that is profit and weight
so we'll start with set
zero set zero in this we say no profit
no weight means nothing is included in
the
bag then we will consider the first
object that is 1 comma 2 whose profit is
one and the weight is two so consider
the first object so prepare s0 of 1 and
and include this first object in the bag
so it will be 1 comma
2 so actually add one comma to this
order pair so we get this one now
prepare set
one then merge these two order Pairs and
prepare this
one so this means
that we have considered first object so
two order pairs are showing that first
object is not included first object is
included
now let us
prepare next set by considering second
object so that is 2 + 3 so prepare next
set that is S11 so add 2 three to these
order pairs 2 + 3 so this is 2 comma 3
then 2 + 3 is added so this will become
3 + 3A
5 then this is second set for the second
object so when you consider second
object to total four order pairs all
these are merged so this is 1 2 and 2 3
and this is
35 this means that no object is included
first object is included second object
is included both objects are included
four possibilities are there so all the
order pairs we got then prepare S2 of 1
by considering third object 5A 4 add 5A
4 to all all so this 5 + 4 so this is 5
+ 4
is 5A 4 only so 5 + 4 so this will
become 6 and 6 so this is 6a 6 5 + 4 so
this is 7A 7 so five is added to this
and four is added to this so This become
8 comma 9 8 comma
9 now merge all these and take order
pair so set three we get it as 0 0 1 2
then 2
3 then
35 then
54 then 6
77 now here 8 comma 99 profit is 8 and
the weight is 9 so that is exceeding the
capacity of the bag don't include that
one
so we have discarded that right now this
is set three in this one if You
observe this is profit this is weight
profit increase weight increase then
from this profit increase weight also
increase profit increased and the weight
also increased but here profit increase
weight is decreased from 5 to 4 this is
not possible profit is increasing so the
weight is also increasing but weight is
decreased how this possible so that's
why this order pair are wrong so we have
to discard any one so we will discard
the one with the Lesser profit smaller
profit so 1 2 3 4 5 6 now we have only
six order pirs because two were invalid
one was this was giving wrong values and
this was exceeding the capacity of the
back so cutting of this one we call it
as dominance rule so with the dominance
rule the value is order pair is
discarded now I will consider fourth
object 6A 5 I will include so I will
prepare set 3 one by considering fourth
objects 6A 5 so first order pair is 6
comma 5 next order pair is 6 and five
are added so this is 7A 7 then 6 and
five are added so this is 8 comma 8 and
then 6 and 5 when they are added it will
become 11 comma
9 6 and 5 added so this become 12 comma
11 and 6 5 when added to 7 and 7 so this
becomes 13A
12 now I have to prepare set four this
is the final set must these order pairs
so 0 0 is taken from here 1A 2 and 2
comma 3 and 5A 4 6A 6 and 7A 7 they are
coming as it is now in one 6A 5 is there
so 6A 5 should come before 7A 7 so 6A 5
now here again you see the profit is
remaining same but the weight is
reducing so this should be removed then
7 comma 7 is there then 8A 8 is there
then remaining 11a 9 exceeding the
capacity of the Back 9 11 and 12 so all
three order pairs are gone so these are
the order pairs I have so if You observe
the method is generating all
possibilities so this is one easy method
of finding all possibilities so the time
taken by this one is almost 2 power
n now what is the solution so we have
already sets now we take the sequence of
decisions to solve this one now what is
the maximum order of air 8A 8 so 8 comma
8 Now using that I will solve this one
so the approach is similar like what we
saw in the tabular method 8A 8 belongs
to set
4 but 8A 8 check whether it belonged to
set three in the set 3 8A 8 was not
there so it doesn't belong to set three
therefore fourth object is included
because of that only we got 4A
4 now I should take an order pair 8
comma 8 from this I should subtract the
profit and weight of the fourth object
so this is profit is six and the weight
is five so the order pair is how much 2
comma 3 so now I should consider 2 comma
3 so now this was the first one now
second one 2A 3 now I have to consider
third object so check whether it belongs
to S3 2A 3 yes it belongs to S3 and 2A 3
belongs to s 2 check whether it belongs
to S2 s2a 3 is there here also it means
this is not because of the third object
so therefore third object is not
included in the back then now next step
is I will consider second object 2A 3
belongs to set two for second object 2
comma 3 now does it belong to set
1 but 2 comma 3
doesn't belong to set 1 so 2 comma 3 was
belonging to set 2 and 2 comma 3 doesn't
belong to set 1 so therefore this is
because of the second object that is
included now what is the profit and
weight of the second object 2A 3 so when
you subtract 2 comma 3 from this one 2 -
2 is 0 and 3 - 3 is 0 so this gives 0a 0
now first object I will consider now the
step is four so 0 0 belongs to set 1 and
also 0a 0 belongs to set 0 therefore
first object is also not
included 0a 0 belongs to S1 also s0 also
it means this is obtained not because of
the first object so first object is also
not included then the solution is from
bottom if you see 0 1 0 1 so the answer
is 0 1 0 1
so these two objects are included see
the profit is eight so we got the same
solution with the help of sets also so
this is one more
method that's all about 01 nsect problem
leave a comment and let me know whether
it was easy for you to understand so I
have shown you both the steps for
solving 01 naap problem right in some
places we find tabulation method and
some places we find the sets method